SCREENSHOOTER
=============

Screenshooter takes screenshots and finds what to capture by itself. Point at
a window, panel, chat, message or page element, and the app highlights it.
Click, and the screenshot is saved to the Desktop and lands on a shelf in the
notch, from where you can drag it into any app.

INSTALLING
Double-click the Screenshooter icon right in this window. The app moves itself
to the Applications folder, starts from there and ejects this disk. It has no
main window: it works in the menu bar (an icon of a dashed frame with a plus in
its corner) and in the notch.

You can also install it by hand: drag the Screenshooter icon onto the
Applications folder next to it and launch the app from Applications.

IF macOS WON'T OPEN THE APP
The app isn't notarized by Apple, so macOS may show a warning the first time.
You need to allow it only once.

  • On macOS 15 and later, close the warning with "Done", open System Settings,
    go to Privacy & Security, scroll down, click "Open Anyway" next to
    Screenshooter and confirm.

  • On macOS 14, right-click Screenshooter in Finder, choose "Open" and click
    "Open" again in the warning.

  • If that doesn't help, drag Screenshooter onto the Applications folder,
    open Terminal and run:
        xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine /Applications/Screenshooter.app

FIRST LAUNCH
In the welcome window, click "Allow…" for each permission and turn on the
Screenshooter switch in the list in System Settings:
  • "Screen Recording" is needed for any screenshot. Once you turn it on, the
    app restarts by itself.
  • "Accessibility" lets the app recognize buttons, messages, lists and page
    elements under the pointer.
macOS also asks for access to the Desktop folder, where screenshots are saved.

TAKING SCREENSHOTS
  ⇧⌘2   smart capture: point at what you need and click
  ⇧⌘1   the whole screen at once
While capturing:
  ↑ ↓ or the scroll wheel   a larger or smaller area (message, chat, window,
                            screen)
  drag                      an area of your own
  Space                     the whole window
  Esc                       cancel

THE SHELF IN THE NOTCH
Point at the notch at the top of the screen to open the shelf. Drag a
screenshot into a messenger or Finder, copy it, open it in the editor
(arrows, boxes, text, highlighter, pixelation, crop), remove it from the shelf
or move it to the Trash with the trash button on its card.
Any files, folders and selected text can go on the shelf: drop them onto the
notch.

Shortcuts, the screenshots folder and everything else can be changed in the
settings: click the menu bar icon and choose "Settings…".
